Add C++solutions for basic complete search and Knapsack (#658)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/USACO feb17-circlecross.mdx

id: usaco-712
source: USACO Bronze 2017 February
title: Why Did the Cow Cross the Road II
author: Benjamin Qi, Danh Ta Chi Thanh
---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_circlecross_bronze_feb17.html)

> Another approach is that we find the number of pairs `(cow_1,cow_2)` such that the first cow comes before the second cow but leaves before the second cow does that (assuming without loss of generality that the 52-character string represents the entry and exit points of the cow in alphabetical way). In other word, we define `a`,`b`,`c`,`d` as the entry and exit points of the two cows, respectively, and we have to counts the number of `(a,b,c,d)`s such that `a<b<c<d` and $s[a] = s[c]$, $s[b] = s[d]$ (see the code implementation below for better understanding).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also find the number of pairs $(cow_1, cow_2)$ such that the $cow_1$ enters before the $cow_2$ and leaves after $cow_2$ enters (assuming without loss of generality that the 52-character string represents the entry and exit points of the cow in alphabetical way). 

In other words, we define $start_x$, $end_x$, as the entry and exit points of a $cow_x$, where $start_x$ is the index of the first occurrence of $cow_x$ and $end_x$ is the index of the last occurrence of $cow_x$. Thus, we count the number of pairs of cows $(x, y)$ such that $start_x$ < $start_y$ < $end_x$ < $end_y$.
```

> Another approach is that we find the number of pairs `(cow_1,cow_2)` such that the first cow comes before the second cow but leaves before the second cow does that (assuming without loss of generality that the 52-character string represents the entry and exit points of the cow in alphabetical way). In other word, we define `a`,`b`,`c`,`d` as the entry and exit points of the two cows, respectively, and we have to counts the number of `(a,b,c,d)`s such that `a<b<c<d` and $s[a] = s[c]$, $s[b] = s[d]$ (see the code implementation below for better understanding).

Reviewer: @tachithanhdanh ?

> Another approach is that we find the number of pairs `(cow_1,cow_2)` such that the first cow comes before the second cow but leaves before the second cow does that (assuming without loss of generality that the 52-character string represents the entry and exit points of the cow in alphabetical way). In other word, we define `a`,`b`,`c`,`d` as the entry and exit points of the two cows, respectively, and we have to counts the number of `(a,b,c,d)`s such that `a<b<c<d` and $s[a] = s[c]$, $s[b] = s[d]$ (see the code implementation below for better understanding).

Author: Thanks, I'm quite bad at explaining things

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## C++ Implementation

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {

> 	ios::sync_with_stdio(0); cin.tie(0);

Reviewer 2: Same here

id: usaco-712
source: USACO Bronze 2017 February
title: Why Did the Cow Cross the Road II
author: Benjamin Qi, Danh Ta Chi Thanh
---

## Solution 1

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_circlecross_bronze_feb17.html)

## Solution 2

> We can also find the number of pairs $(cow_1, cow_2)$ such that the $cow_1$ enters before the $cow_2$ and leaves after $cow_2$ enters (assuming without loss of generality that the 52-character string represents the entry and exit points of the cow in alphabetical way). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We count the number of pairs $(cow_1, cow_2)$ such that $cow_1$ enters before $cow_2$ and leaves sometime between $cow_2$'s entrance and exit (assuming without loss of generality that the 52-character string represents the entry and exit points of the cow in alphabetical way). 
```

Also, what does "in alphabetical way" mean?

Author: > Also, what does "in alphabetical way" mean?

I think that should be chronologically (i.e. from left to right)?

> We count the number of pairs $(cow_1, cow_2)$ such that $cow_1$ enters before $cow_2$ and leaves sometime between $cow_2$'s entrance and exit (assuming without loss of generality that the 52-character string represents the entry and exit points of the cow chronologically, i.e. the order of time is from the left to the right). 

Reviewer 3: There's no concept of "time" in this problem. Also we can simplify the wording.

```suggestion
We count the number of pairs $(cow_1, cow_2)$ such that $cow_1$ enters before $cow_2$ and leaves somewhere between $cow_2$'s entry and exit. Let the first occurrence of a letter be the cow's entry and the last occurrence her exit.
```

Reviewer 3: Other way around might make more sense
```suggestion
Let the first occurrence of a letter be the cow's entry and the last occurrence her exit. Then, we count the number of pairs $(cow_1, cow_2)$ such that $cow_1$ enters before $cow_2$ and leaves somewhere between $cow_2$'s entry and exit. 
```

In other words, we define $start_x$, $end_x$, as the entry and exit points of a $cow_x$, where $start_x$ is the index of the first occurrence of $cow_x$ and $end_x$ is the index of the last occurrence of $cow_x$. Thus, we count the number of pairs of cows $(x, y)$ such that $start_x$ < $start_y$ < $end_x$ < $end_y$.

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^4)$

Reviewer 3: Wouldn't it be simpler to show the N^2 way of doing this? Maybe we can say "Alternatively, here's a N^2 solution that accomplishes the same thing."

Reviewer: isn't it $\mathcal O(1)$? N is always 52.

Reviewer 3: well, technically

Reviewer 3: but practically speaking we can let N = len of input

Author: So do I need to add some explanation to the **Time complexity**? I think the code implementation is self-explanatory.

Author: I also added some comments for the time complexity, is that necessary?

Reviewer 3: No, it's not necessary. I was just pointing out that there's a very simple way to make it N^2, which is significantly faster than N^4, so we might as well bring it up.

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^4)$ (where $N$ is the number of entries and exits)

Author: This should be reasonable now @frodakcin

Reviewer 3: In the higher division versions of this problem, there are $N$ cows and $2N$ integers. We can say 
```suggestion
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^4)$ (where $N$ is the length of the input string)
```
in order to stay consistent with this problem specifically or
```suggestion
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^4)$ (where $N$ is the number of cows)
```
if we want to be consistent with the other versions of this problem

Author: I would choose the second one.

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^4)$ (with $N$ being the length of the input string which is $52$)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^4)$ (where $N$ is the number of cows)
```

Reviewer 3: Actually, the extra information in parentheses isn't necessary in my opinion.

Author: I think it should be the number of entries ($52$) rather than the cows ($26$).

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## C++ Implementation

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0); cin.tie(0);
	freopen("circlecross.in","r",stdin);
	freopen("circlecross.out","w",stdout);
	string s; cin >> s;
	int ans = 0;
	for (int a = 0; a < s.size(); ++a) 
		for (int b = a+1; b < s.size(); ++b) 
			for (int c = b+1; c < s.size(); ++c) 
				for (int d = c+1; d < s.size(); ++d) 
					ans += s[a] == s[c] && s[b] == s[d];
	cout << ans;
	return 0;
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: Add alternate O(N^2) solution?

Author: maybe

Author: I just added the O(N^2) solution for the 2nd solution. Hope it might help

Reviewer 3: Thanks!

id: usaco-712
source: USACO Bronze 2017 February
title: Why Did the Cow Cross the Road II
author: Benjamin Qi, Danh Ta Chi Thanh
---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_circlecross_bronze_feb17.html)

Let the first occurrence of a letter be the cow's entry and the last occurrence her exit. Then, we count the number of pairs $(cow_1, cow_2)$ such that $cow_1$ enters before $cow_2$ and leaves somewhere between $cow_2$'s entry and exit. 

> In other words, we define $start_x$, $end_x$, as the entry and exit points of a $cow_x$, where $start_x$ is the index of the first occurrence of $cow_x$ and $end_x$ is the index of the last occurrence of $cow_x$. Thus, we count the number of pairs of cows $(x, y)$ such that $start_x < start_y < end_x < end_y$.

Reviewer 4: > In other words, we define $start_x$, $end_x$, as the entry and exit points of a $cow_x$, where $start_x$ is the index of the first occurrence of $cow_x$ and $end_x$ is the index of the last occurrence of $cow_x$.

Just say

> Define $start_x$ to be the index of the first occurrence of $cow_x$ and $end_x$ to be the index of the last occurrence of $cow_x$.

Author: Yeah the explanation becomes more concise after doing this

Author: Is there anything that needs to be changed?
Could you list them all? I will commit later because it is 11:34 P.M. in my time zone so I'm gonna take a sleep.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for being on top of the comments and dealing with them so promptly! It's a lot, but I'd rather have too much quality assurance than too little :)

Reviewer 3: Sleep is always important

Reviewer 4: > Is there anything that needs to be changed?

That's all I have for now :)

id: usaco-712
source: USACO Bronze 2017 February
title: Why Did the Cow Cross the Road II
author: Benjamin Qi, Danh Ta Chi Thanh
---

## Solution 1

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_circlecross_bronze_feb17.html)

## Solution 2

> Let the first occurrence of a letter be the cow's entry and the last occurrence her exit. Then, we count the number of pairs $(cow_1, cow_2)$ such that $cow_1$ enters before $cow_2$ and leaves somewhere between $cow_2$'s entry and exit. 

Reviewer 4: isn't this equivalent to the official analysis?

Author: I don't know

Author: > isn't this equivalent to the official analysis?

Yeah, it seems that it is similar to the official analysis, so should I remove the ## Solution 2 line?

Reviewer 4: ok

Author: Removed.

Reviewer 4: Actually, maybe we can have separate headers for the N^4 and N^2 versions. Like this:

> Official Analysis
> 
> ## $\mathcal{O}(N^4)$ Solution
> 
> (explanation)
> 
> ## $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ Solution
> 
> Alternatively, we can store the positions of entry and exit points for each of the cows ...

Though the explanation above the N^4 solution seems to correspond to the N^2 solution.

Reviewer 4: > still nothing in explanation of solution 1 that specifically refers to the N^4 code instead of the N^2 code

Reviewer 4: > still nothing in explanation of solution 1 that specifically refers to the N^4 code instead of the N^2 code

Reviewer 4: > still nothing in this explanation that specifically refers to the N^4 code rather than the N^2 code

Author: So I have to add some comments about how the N^4 solution can be improved to make it N^2?

Reviewer 4: It's not clear that this explanation corresponds to the N^4 code, which makes no use of `Start` or `End` arrays. @frodakcin what do you think?

Reviewer 3: You're definitely right. Maybe we can have the N^2 solution first, and say smth along the lines of "Alternatively, due to the low constraints, one can solve the problem in N^4 by iterating over all pairs of intersecting paths, and checking whether they represent two cows."

Author: > You're definitely right. Maybe we can have the N^2 solution first, and say smth along the lines of "Alternatively, due to the low constraints, one can solve the problem in N^4 by iterating over all pairs of intersecting paths, and checking whether they represent two cows."

Yeah, this seems appropriate since the Bronze division does not require us to strictly follow the O(N^2) solution, so we can use the O(N^4) solution for simplicity and intuition.

Reviewer 4: I'll edit.

Author: The solution is detailed, should we add star that problem to recommend the users solve that first? @bqi343

Reviewer 4: idk, I have no idea why some problems are starred and others aren't :eyes:

Author: I'm still wondering when my pull request will be merged 👀

In other words, we define $start_x$, $end_x$, as the entry and exit points of a $cow_x$, where $start_x$ is the index of the first occurrence of $cow_x$ and $end_x$ is the index of the last occurrence of $cow_x$. Thus, we count the number of pairs of cows $(x, y)$ such that $start_x$ < $start_y$ < $end_x$ < $end_y$.

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^4)$ (where $N$ is the number of entries and exits)

> Alternatively, we can store the positions of entry points and exit points in another arrays in order to reduce the **Time Complexity** to  $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, we can store the positions of entry points and exit points in another arrays in order to reduce the **Time Complexity** to  $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$. 
```
```suggestion
Alternatively, we can store the positions of entry and exit points for each of the cows. Then, we can loop through all pairs of cows and see if they cross based on their entry and exit points. This runs in $\mathcal O(N^2)$.
```

Author: Thanks a lot, the explanation seems concise and accurate now.

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## C++ Implementation

Naive $\mathcal{O}(N^4)$ solution

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0); cin.tie(0);
	freopen("circlecross.in","r",stdin);
	freopen("circlecross.out","w",stdout);
	string s; cin >> s;
	int ans = 0;
	for (int a = 0; a < s.size(); ++a) 
		for (int b = a+1; b < s.size(); ++b) 
			for (int c = b+1; c < s.size(); ++c) 
				for (int d = c+1; d < s.size(); ++d) 
					ans += s[a] == s[c] && s[b] == s[d];
	cout << ans;
	return 0;
}
```

Optimized $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ solution

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0); cin.tie(0);
	freopen("circlecross.in","r",stdin);
	freopen("circlecross.out","w",stdout);
	string s; cin >> s;

> 	int enter[26], exit[26];

Reviewer 3: Just want to double check: is it ok (proper code etiquette) to use `exit` as a variable name (it's highlighted as if it were a keyword)?

@bqi343

Reviewer 4: I would say no. Also, why use `memset` instead of `fill` or `fill_n`?

Author: let me check it real quick

Author: seems that there is one
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/exit-vs-_exit-c-cpp/

Reviewer 5: `memset` is slightly faster than `fill` iirc

Reviewer 4: From one of the comments here it looks like `fill` compiles to `memset` with `-O2` when possible, so I don't see why you wouldn't use `fill`.

(Plus, when is zero-initializing an array going to be the main bottleneck in your program :eyes:)

https://lemire.me/blog/2020/01/20/filling-large-arrays-with-zeroes-quickly-in-c/

Reviewer 3: We can call them `start` and `end` then.

Reviewer 4: whoops then

```cpp
int main() {
	int end[1];
	vector<int> v{5};
	cout << end(v)[-1];
}
```

doesn't work :/

Author: > We can call them `start` and `end` then.

I would change the first letter of them to capital letters rather than `start` and `end` as it might be confusing to read.

Author: > From one of the comments here it looks like `fill` compiles to `memset` with `-O2` when possible, so I don't see why you wouldn't use `fill`.
> 
> https://lemire.me/blog/2020/01/20/filling-large-arrays-with-zeroes-quickly-in-c/
> 
> (Plus, when is zero-initializing an array going to be the main bottleneck in your program 👀)

Or we can use this as an alternative way of declaring variables: int Enter[26]{-1}, Exit[26]{-1};

Author: > Or we can use this as an alternative way of declaring variables: int Enter[26]{-1}, Exit[26]{-1};

Wait it don't work with -1 initialization

Author: So I think we shouldn't remove the `memset` function

Reviewer 3: > whoops then
> 
> ```c++
> int main() {
> 	int end[1];
> 	vector<int> v{5};
> 	cout << end(v)[-1];
> }
> ```
> 
> doesn't work :/

ugh too many keywords!!

> I would change the first letter of them to capital letters rather than using `start` and `end` as the name of these variables since it might be confusing to read.

yea do this

id: usaco-712
source: USACO Bronze 2017 February
title: Why Did the Cow Cross the Road II
author: Benjamin Qi, Danh Ta Chi Thanh
---

## Solution 1

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_circlecross_bronze_feb17.html)

## Solution 2

Let the first occurrence of a letter be the cow's entry and the last occurrence her exit. Then, we count the number of pairs $(cow_1, cow_2)$ such that $cow_1$ enters before $cow_2$ and leaves somewhere between $cow_2$'s entry and exit. 

> In other words, we define $start_x$, $end_x$, as the entry and exit points of a $cow_x$, where $start_x$ is the index of the first occurrence of $cow_x$ and $end_x$ is the index of the last occurrence of $cow_x$. Thus, we count the number of pairs of cows $(x, y)$ such that $start_x$ < $start_y$ < $end_x$ < $end_y$.

Reviewer 4: > $start_x$ < $start_y$ < $end_x$ < $end_y$

Why so many $?

Author: Removed redundant $s.

#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0); cin.tie(0);
	freopen("circlecross.in","r",stdin);
	freopen("circlecross.out","w",stdout);
	string s; cin >> s;
	int ans = 0;
	for (int a = 0; a < s.size(); ++a) 
		for (int b = a+1; b < s.size(); ++b) 
			for (int c = b+1; c < s.size(); ++c) 
				for (int d = c+1; d < s.size(); ++d) 
					ans += s[a] == s[c] && s[b] == s[d];
	cout << ans;
	return 0;
}
```

Optimized $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ solution

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0); cin.tie(0);
	freopen("circlecross.in","r",stdin);
	freopen("circlecross.out","w",stdout);
	string s; cin >> s;
	int Start[26], Exit[26];
	//Set all elements of Start and End arrays to -1.
	memset(Start,-1,sizeof(Start));
	memset(End,-1,sizeof(End));
	for (int i = 0; i < s.size(); ++i) {
		if (Start[s[i]-'A'] == -1) Start[s[i]-'A'] = i;
		else End[s[i]-'A'] = i;
	}
	int ans = 0;
	for (int i = 0; i < 26; ++i)
		for (int j = 0; j < 26; ++j)
			ans +=  Start[i] < Start[j] && Start[j] < End[i] && End[i] < End[j];
	cout << ans;
	return 0;
}
```

<Info title="Useful functions for initializing array values">

> In this problem, you can use `std::fill` instead of `memset` with no significant difference. However, with large arrays (i.e. arrays with $10^5$ or $10^6$ elements) it seems that `memset` is [more efficient](https://lemire.me/blog/2020/01/20/filling-large-arrays-with-zeroes-quickly-in-c/) than `std::fill`.

Reviewer 4: Did you see what I wrote? Speed is *not* a reason to use `memset` over `fill`.

https://github.com/cpinitiative/usaco-guide/pull/658#discussion_r568318950

Plus, I don't think an array of size 10^6 doesn't qualify as large.

Author: So I should change `memset` into `std::fill`?

Reviewer 4: sure

</Info>

<Warning>

> Make sure you know what `memset` actually does before using it! `memset` treats the value that is passed to it as an `unsigned char`. So for an array of 32-bit integers, `memset(arr, -1, sizeof arr)` will set each element to $-1$, as you might expect. However, `memset(arr, 1, sizeof arr)` will set each element to $1+2^8+2^{16}+2^{24}=16843009$, not $1$. Note that if you want to initialize the whole array to some values that is neither 0 nor -1, you can write a single `for` loop or use `std::fill` to do that.

Reviewer 4: You should link to the module instead of repeating the warning.
